Most creators think 4,000 watch hours
takes months or years, but I hit
monetization in 26 days using a simple
system that people completely ignore.
The biggest lie on YouTube is that you
need viral content to get watch time.
That's complete nonsense. You just need
to stop bleeding viewers at the worst
possible moment. I'm going to show you
five strategies to help you get 4,000
watch hours fast without changing your
content style, buying new equipment, or
having a massive audience. But here's
the thing. Most creators get the first
strategy completely backwards and it's
costing them thousands of watch hours
every month. Small channels make a
massive mistake. They create short
videos because they think viewers have
short attention spans. But that's simply
not true. Viewers don't have short
attention spans for content. They have
short attention spans for boring
content. There are 3-hour long Minecraft
videos that get millions of views every
single day. People binge Netflix shows
for 8 hours straight. TV viewership is
going up with the average American
watching four hours of television daily.
Isn't that crazy? We know that people
are watching longer content. So, the
solution is creating longer valuepacked
content to justify an extended watch
time from the viewer. Let me explain the
math. A 10-minute video watched for 5
minutes gives you more watch time than
the 3minute video watched for 2 minutes.
Even if your retention percentage looks
worse, YouTube only cares about a total
minutes watched, not just percentages.
Plus, longer videos allows you to dive
deeper into topics, which keeps viewers
hooked longer. When you rush through
concepts in 3 minutes, viewers feel
unsatisfied and they click away. But
when you take 10 minutes to properly
explain a concept in depth with
analogies, examples, and you simplify
concepts so that it's digestible,
they're actually more engaged because
they're actually learning. This signals
to YouTube that your content is
highquality and worth recommending. All
of the longest videos on my main channel
are evergreen content. My full YouTube
script writing course, which is over 1.5
hours long, is still getting 400 views
every 48 hours despite being 450 days
old. And I recently made another 4-hour
script writing course that is still
getting 400 views every 48 hours, too.
If you can get someone to spend even 30
minutes with your channel, the
likelihood of them knowing, liking, and
trusting you exponentially increases.
And hence, the likelihood of them
wanting to watch another of your videos
exponentially increases, too. If you
make a really long video that's
genuinely valuable and entertaining,
people come back to it over and over
again. They bookmark it, they share it,
and they send it to a friend for
reference. Each return visit adds more
watch time to your total watch time. And
YouTube counts it as an additional view
if that person takes a 48 hour break
from your video and then comes back to
watching your video. So that's an extra
view from the exact same viewer. So
here's how to actually do this without
adding fluff to your video and making it
feel super duper bloated. If you're
making an educational video, list out
every single question that your viewer
might have about your topic. So, if
you're talking about thumbnail designer,
the viewer is probably wondering what
colors actually get people to click, how
big should the text on my thumbnail be,
what expressions get the most number of
clicks, and what formats are working for
thumbnails right now. Write out
literally every question that someone
learning about this topic would ask.
Now, you need to think about the best
way to present this information to your
viewer. It might be a simple talking
head video where you just explain
everything direct to the camera, or it
might be B-roll footage cut together
with your voice over explaining a
concept. Well, popularly now, you can
use Google Slides like what many of the
top creators do. Just clean, simple
slides visually breaking down each
point. Really, any format works fine.
You just want to ask yourself, what is
the best way for your viewer to take
information and retain it? The key is
making everything as digestible as
possible. So, the easier it is for your
viewer to understand, the more receptive
they'll be to complex ideas. So, break
these complex ideas into bite-sized
chunks. Give specific examples for every
complex thought. So, if you're
explaining color psychology, don't just
say create warm colors to have urgency.
Show them in actual thumbnails with red
and oranges next to cool blue thumbnails
and explain exactly why. The goal is to
make viewers feel like they're actually
getting a masterclass, not a quick tip.
Now, if you're thinking, "But what about
entertainment content?" That's where the
second part of this strategy gets really
interesting because entertainment
creators actually have an unfair
advantage that educational creators
don't. And if you're making an
entertainment video or a documentary,
storytelling becomes your secret weapon
for extending watch time naturally. Most
creators think longer videos means more
fluff, but the truth is you need more
story beats, not more filler in your
video. Every story needs setup,
conflict, and then a resolution. But you
can stretch each section by adding more
micro stories within the main narrative.
If you're making a documentary about a
failed business, don't just tell the
story chronologically. Add character
backstories. Explode emotion behind the
main character and the key decisions
that they made. Show the ripple effects
of a failed business on families and
employees. The key is to layer multiple
story arcs that intersect with each
other. The main story might be about the
main character, but there might also be
other side characters that add to the
main plot. That is called a Bplot. In a
popular movie like let's say Iron Man,
which is my personal favorite movie, the
plot is Tony Stark building the suit and
fighting the villain. That's the main
plot, but the B plot is his relationship
with Pepper Pods and his personal
transformation from selfish playboy to
actually saving the world. Both Aplot
and Bplot weave together and each has
emotional payoffs that keep you
invested. You want to add emotional
depth to every major story beat. Don't
just say the company failed. Show what
the failure looked like. These emotional
moments keep viewers invested because
they're experiencing the story, not just
hearing facts. And if you have a main
Aplot and you layer it with a Bplot,
immediately you'll see your video just
get way longer and it's actually a lot
more interesting from the viewers
perspective. And before you know it,
you'll be on your way to getting your
first 4,000 watch hours. But wait,
here's where most creators make a fatal
mistake that actually kills their watch
time. And it has nothing to do with the
content itself. And that fatal mistake,
it's about timestamps. There's a big
debate about timestamps. Some creators
love them. Others think that they hurt
retention. I'm personally completely for
them and here's why. The problem is
viewers get bored midvideo and click off
instead of seeking interesting sections.
Your 8-minute video isn't 8 minutes of
entertainment for everyone. And
timestamps create second chances for
engagement. So instead of clicking off
when they get bored, viewers can click
to the next timestamp for a final
attempt to stay engaged. So this leads
to them finding an interesting section
and sticking around, which massively
increases watch time. Think about it. If
you have a 8-minute long video and the
viewer reaches the third minute and they
are completely bored out of their mind
instead of looking to the sidebar and
finding a video over there, they
actually click around to see, hey, is
this video going to get good or not? And
maybe they find a section that they
actually want. So just by spending less
than 5 minutes on your timestamp, you
would have recovered a viewer that would
have otherwise been completely lost. A
YouTuber who does this ridiculously well
is Caleb Hammer. He runs a podcast
called Financial Audit, which sounds
like the most boring content on the
planet, so it's easy for people to click
off. So, what he does, he adds these
clickbait timestamps, and honestly, they
work pretty well with the titles. I
found myself wanting to change the
video, but then moving between different
timestamps, and because they are so
clickbaity, and it actually delivers on
the title, makes me want to keep
watching and give him hours and hours of
watch time just from this 2-hour podcast
and having all of these timestamps that
he spends less than, you know, 10
minutes on probably. And adding these
timestamps is ridiculously easy. All you
want to do is put time markers on your
description and then add titles for each
section. So instead of saying method
one, method two, method three, you can
actually create curiosity in the copy of
the timestamps by saying this strategy
helps you increase your watch time by 2x
and people will see that time stamp and
be like, "Oh, how can I do that?" And
then they will click on the time stamp
instead of clicking off. But timestamps,
they're just the beginning. The real
breakthrough happens when you master
what I call the multiplication effect.
And this next strategy can literally
triple your watch time from the same
number of viewers. So what's this
multiplication effect? It's simple. One
viewer watching three of your videos
beats three viewers watching one video.
And most creators never experience this
multiplication effect because they treat
each video like a standalone piece
instead of a series. Think of your
channel like a spiderweb. When someone
clicks on your video from their
homepage, you want to drive them into
your YouTube spiderweb ecosystem because
a single viewer that watches four of
your videos when you get them into your
spiderweb gives you more watch time than
four viewers watching one of your
videos. And that's because for one
person to watch four videos in a row,
they would have to watch each of them
from start to finish. Whereas, if four
different viewers don't know who you
are, click on your video, they may only
give you two to three minutes of watch
time each. So, you want to maximize your
watch time per viewer. And that doesn't
even necessarily mean making different
videos. That just means having a
strategy to get someone from video A to
B, B to C, and C to D. And this
spiderweb effect happens when your
videos are so interconnected that
viewers can't escape. And every video
leads from one to another and another to
another, and they never ever leave your
channel if you have enough videos. Every
video should have multiple pathways to
other videos on your channels. Your
descriptions should reference other
relevant videos on your channel. And
your call to actions at the end of your
video should mention other videos by
name. And even your thumbnails should
have a consistent visual so that your
viewer knows exactly what to expect when
they click on one video before they
click on another. So in terms of linking
one video to another, you don't just
want to click the best for viewer option
based on the video that you made. You
want to be very intentional. So one of
your videos would have solved one
specific solution for this specific
viewer. and what is the next problem
that they'll have? Or if you're running
an entertainment channel, once they have
watched this story from me, what is
another story that because they enjoyed
the story, they will also enjoy. And
then you will want to link that video
ideally. Once again, this isn't random
guesswork. It's being very intentional
about what problems you're solving for
the viewer and how you're entertaining
them and then bringing them down a
journey to your next video. And you do
the exact same thing with this other
video, which will bring them on another
journey to this other video. Cuz really
those viewers who watch multiple of your
videos will become your biggest super
fans. They subscribe at higher rates,
they comment more and they share your
content to everyone. YouTube will
realize that you are actually able to
keep the attention of a single viewer on
your channel and it will lead to higher
session times on average for your viewer
and that is what will lead them to
pushing your videos to more audiences.
And this can literally 1.5 to 2x your
watch time by creating these binge
sessions. But even if you nail these
binge sessions, there's still one
massive leak that's bleeding your watch
time that could kill your chances of
monetization. And it happens the moment
that your video ends. The moment your
video ends, YouTube immediately serves
up your competitors on a silver platter.
You just spend 10 minutes building trust
and rapport with your audience. YouTube
hands them directly to someone else and
gets all the credit for your hard work.
So instead of directing your viewers to
someone else's channel, what you can do
is you can have a curated playlist of
your best videos. These are videos that
you know once someone watches one, you
can bring them down the exact same
journey as previously. And this is more
of a forcing function to get someone to
watch one video to another to another to
another. Having someone click onto a
playlist video instead of just some
random standalone video on your channel
can actually boost your watch hours by a
ton. So let's say you have 10 videos and
all of these 10 videos are inside your
playlist. If someone gets caught inside
your playlist and they might have these
videos playing on the background while
they're making dinner and it will
immediately play the next video. And all
of these small different factors add up
to your watch time. And the reason why
these tactics work is not because they
work kind of standalone. Oh, just
because you create a playlist you'll get
4,000 watch hours. I'm not claiming
that. But when you have all of these
small tiny optimizations and you put
them all together combined with a good
idea title, thumbnail, and a great
video, that's when you really maximize
your chances of hitting monetization and
getting that 4,000 watch hours that
everybody wants. Now, you might be
thinking, "These strategies sound great
in theory, but there's one final element
that determines whether they actually
work for you or not." And honestly, this
last one is probably the most important
of them all. All these strategies mean
nothing without the final element that
makes or breaks your 4,000 watch hour
goal. And that is consistency. And I
know everyone talks about consistency.
Every course of video just tells you
that, hey, be consistent. And that's the
magical solution. Most creators have all
of these brilliant ideas, but with
inconsistent execution, it kills your
momentum before your videos are even
allowed to compound. But this is
something that you already know. You
already know that you need to post
consistently. But it's not your fault.
The problem comes when someone tells you
to post consistently is that your brain
immediately gets scared and thinks, "Oh,
this there's this huge mountain that you
need to climb in order to start posting
consistently." Because when you say post
consistently, it sounds like, "Oh, post
forever. Post for the next 10, 20, 30
years of your life." When in reality,
that's not what you're meant to commit
to. Because saying that you have to post
for the next 10 years of your life once
a week sounds overwhelming as hell. So,
here's what I want you to do this week.
Choose one day of this week and commit
to recording on that specific date. Book
a studio, set up your camera equipment
for that specific date. Block out two to
three hours so that you actually sit in
front of the camera and actually get
your video recorded. For me, that is a
Tuesday at 11:00 a.m. every single week
and I come into the studio. I set up all
of the lighting and I get my video
recorded. What this does when you commit
to a certain recording date is that you
will always show up on that specific
time and you are forced to actually come
in front of the camera and actually
record something. And yes, there are
some weeks where I just didn't have time
to prepare scripts. What happens? Life
gets in the way. What are you going to
do about it? So, out of these 3 hours
that I block, I spent an hour scripting
a video. I just outline something and
then I force myself to record it.
Whether I actually get it edited and
posted or not is a totally separate
conversation. And I build the muscle of
scripting a video every single week so
that I have something to produce and
something to record because I know that
hey, if I commit to a certain recording
date and I do this for this week, it's
just one more week, one more week, one
more week, and it doesn't feel like I'm
on an infinite treadmill. This is
actually super duper powerful because I
had a friend, Lucas, who didn't post a
video for a whole year. he had
procrastinated saying, "Oh, I'm looking
for video ideas. Oh, I have eight videos
scripted. Oh, now I'm going to finally
publish something." And literally last
month, he came to me, he dropped me a
message, and he was saying, "Hey, Brian,
what video ideas would be good to do for
my channel?" And it had been an entire
year and he didn't post. So, when I
finally sat him down and said, "Hey,
we're going to set up a date that we're
going to post. We're going to post it
Sunday." It was a Monday. And we
actually committed him to, "Hey, we're
going to script the video for the first
3 days. We're going to record it on
Thursday. We're going to get it edited
for 2 days." and then we're going to
post on Sunday and I'm going to post a
screenshot over here. He closed his
first $12,000 deal just from YouTube
with 23 subscribers. Totally unheard of.
And he decided to postpone his YouTube
by an entire year. Even though these
were the results that he could have
gotten if he had just posted two videos
or even more than that. So commit to a
recording date this week. Commit to a
date that you're going to post this
week, too. And I guarantee you that will
be your first step to getting your first
4,000 watch hours, which is essentially
just building the muscle of posting a
YouTube video. So, what if I could give
you the exact plug-and-play system that
has allowed me to blow up my channel and
post consistently for the past year
using AI? Click on this video over here
and I'll see you in the next